.\" kaffe(1) manpage. Copyright: identical to that of kaffe itself,
.\" as documented under the COPYING section below.
.\" Contributed to the Kaffe project by Ray Dassen <jdassen@wi.LeidenUniv.nl>
.\"
.TH KAFFE 1 "August 1996" "Kaffe version 0.5p3" "Kaffe project"
.SH NAME 
kaffe \- a virtual machine to execute Java(tm) bytecode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "kaffe [\-help] [\-version] [\-O] [\-classpath" " path" "] 
.BI "[\-ss" " size" "] [\-verify] [\-verify\-remote] [\-noverify]"
.BI "[\-D" "property" "]"
.BI " classname"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kaffe 
executes 
.I classfile
containing Java bytecode, either as a pure bytecode interpreter, or by
doing "just-in-time" code conversion from the abstract code to the host
machine's native code.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-help" 
Give a short usage message.
.TP
.B "\-version"
Print the version number.
.TP
.B "\-O"
Enable code optimisations. These are currently under development.
.TP
.B "\-ss size"
Set the maximum stack size to 
.I size
.TP
.B "\-classpath path"
Set the path which is searched for compiled classes, e.g.
/usr/local/share/kaffe
.TP
.B "\-verify"
Verify all bytecode. Not implemented yet.
.TP
.B "\-verifyremote"
Verify bytecode obtained via the network. Not implemented yet.
.TP
.B "\-noverify"
Do not verify any bytecode.
.TP
.B "\-Dproperty=value"
Set a property to a given value.
.SH CLASS
.TP
.I classname
Java class name to invoke.  Note that this is
.B not
the filename.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CLASSPATH
A colon-separated list of directories in which to search for 
.B .class
files.
.TP
.B KAFFEHOME
.B Not documented yet.
.TP
.B LD_LIBRARY_PATH
A colon-separated list of directories in which to search for libraries.
See
.BR ld.so (1)
for details. This needs to be set if Kaffe's shared libraries are
installed in a location not part of the dynamic loader's default search
path.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B Not documented yet.
.SH NOTES
Java is a registered trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc.

Kaffe is available via FTP from various sites, the primary one being
.RI < ftp://ftp.tjwassoc.demon.co.uk>, 1996.
A Kaffe webpage can be found at
.RI < http://www.tjwassoc.demon.co.uk>, 1996.

There are several mailing lists for Kaffe:
.TP 
.I kaffe@tjwassoc.demon.co.uk>, 1996.
General Kaffe discussions
.TP
.I kaffe\-announce@tjwassoc.demon.co.uk>, 1996.
Kaffe related announcements
.LP
To subscribe to these lists send a message containing the word "subscribe"
to
.IR <listname>\-request@tjwassoc.demon.co.uk>, 1996.

Kaffe forms part of the Jolt project. This projects aims to develop the
necessary components for a completely free version of the Java system.
This includes the Kaffe virtual machine, the Guavac compiler, and the
Kream class library. Information on this projects and its components can
be found on the mailing list
.I jolt\-list@redhat.com 
or on the web pages
.IR http://www.redhat.com/jolt/ .
.SH BUGS
Support for graphical code is still under development.

The just-in-time code conversion is not supported on all of the
architectures.

Optimisation is still under construction.

Code verification is not implemented yet.

Kaffe is still undergoing rapid development. Check the 
.I NOTES/BUGS
file in the source distributions for known bugs not mentioned here.
.SH AUTHOR
Kaffe was originally written by Tim Wilkinson <tim@tjwassoc.demon.co.uk>, 1996.
Many others contributed to the Kaffe project. They are listed in the
source distribution's
.I NOTES/THANKS
and 
.I NOTES/HELPERS
files.
.SH COPYING
Kaffe is distributed under a Berkeley style license. For full details,
see the file
.I license.terms
in the source distribution for full details.

Essentially you can use Kaffe for both personal and commerical purpose,
on its own or as part of another package.
.SH SEE ALSO
.I Guavac, the GNU Java compiler\c
, David Engberg
